apps/docs/content/docs/en/contributors/project/development-onboarding.mdx, before:

﻿---
title: "Development Onboarding"
description: "Contributor onboarding guide for build, test, quality, and release workflows."
---

# Development Onboarding

This guide is the contributor entry point for day-to-day development and PR validation.

## 1) Local Setup

```bash
git clone https://github.com/sigee-min/ashfox.git
cd ashfox
npm install
```

## 2) Build Commands

```bash
npm run build
```

Per app build:

```bash
npm run build:plugin-desktop
npm run build:ashfox
```

Scaffold apps:

```bash
npm run dev:gateway
npm run dev:worker
```

## 3) Test and Quality Commands

```bash
npm run test:unit
npm run test:conformance
npm test
```

Coverage and quality gate:

```bash
npm run test:cov
npm run quality
```

Static quality checks:

```bash
npm run quality:check
npm run quality:deadcode
npm run quality:audit
npm run quality:coverage
```

## 4) Docs Build

```bash
cd apps/docs
npm ci
npm run build
```

## 5) Web App Build

```bash
cd apps/web
npm install
npm run build
```

## 6) Docker Scaffold

```bash
cd deploy
docker compose up --build
```

## 7) Contributing Workflow

1. Branch from `main`.
2. Keep changes scoped (runtime, contracts, docs, or CI).
3. Run required checks before opening a PR.
4. Include test evidence in the PR description.
5. Keep schema and docs synchronized for behavior changes.

Related references:
- `CONTRIBUTING.md`
- `CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md`
- `SECURITY.md`
- `SUPPORT.md`

## 8) Release Workflow

Release automation runs from `.github/workflows/release.yml` using manual dispatch.

- `publish`: run quality/build steps and publish GitHub Release

Before running release workflows, complete the public checklist:
- `apps/docs/content/docs/en/contributors/project/release-public-checklist.mdx`

Commit message:

docs: enforce quality gates and improve SEO/GEO discoverability

apps/docs/content/docs/en/contributors/project/development-onboarding.mdx, after:

---
title: "Development Onboarding"
description: "Contributor onboarding guide for build, test, quality, and release workflows."
summary: "Contributor onboarding guide for build, test, quality, and release workflows."
---

# Development Onboarding

This guide is the contributor entry point for day-to-day development and PR validation.

## 1) Local Setup

```bash
git clone https://github.com/sigee-min/ashfox.git
cd ashfox
npm install
```

## 2) Build Commands

```bash
npm run build
```

Per app build:

```bash
npm run build:plugin-desktop
npm run build:ashfox
```

Scaffold apps:

```bash
npm run dev:gateway
npm run dev:worker
```

## 3) Test and Quality Commands

```bash
npm run test:unit
npm run test:conformance
npm test
```

Coverage and quality gate:

```bash
npm run test:cov
npm run quality
```

Static quality checks:

```bash
npm run quality:check
npm run quality:deadcode
npm run quality:audit
npm run quality:coverage
```

## 4) Docs Build

```bash
cd apps/docs
npm ci
npm run build
```

## 5) Web App Build

```bash
cd apps/web
npm install
npm run build
```

## 6) Docker Scaffold

```bash
cd deploy
docker compose up --build
```

## 7) Contributing Workflow

1. Branch from `main`.
2. Keep changes scoped (runtime, contracts, docs, or CI).
3. Run required checks before opening a PR.
4. Include test evidence in the PR description.
5. Keep schema and docs synchronized for behavior changes.

Related references:
- `CONTRIBUTING.md`
- `CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md`
- `SECURITY.md`
- `SUPPORT.md`

## 8) Release Workflow

Release automation runs from `.github/workflows/release.yml` using manual dispatch.

- `publish`: run quality/build steps and publish GitHub Release

Before running release workflows, complete the public checklist:
- `apps/docs/content/docs/en/contributors/project/release-public-checklist.mdx`
