apps/docs/content/docs/en/contributors/project/docs-writing-standard.mdx, before:

---
title: "Docs Writing Standard"
description: "Readability-first standards for docs that remain useful for people and discoverable in search."
---

# Docs Writing Standard

This standard defines how to write and review Ashfox docs so the content stays task-focused for humans while still being indexable by search engines and answer engines.

## 1) Primary Goal

The primary KPI for docs is task success, not raw page views.

- A reader should complete the intended task with this page alone.
- Search optimization must support comprehension, not replace it.
- If SEO tactics and clarity conflict, clarity wins.

## 2) Page Scope Rules

- Keep one page focused on one user intent.
- Use one stable canonical URL per topic.
- Split pages when content tries to answer multiple unrelated questions.
- Prefer clear nouns and verbs in headings over marketing wording.

## 3) Body vs. Search Signal Separation

Keep ranking signals in metadata and structure, not as repeated text in the body.

- Use query-aligned phrasing in `title`, `description`, and section headings.
- Keep body content procedural and example-driven.
- Avoid repeating keyword variants in paragraphs for ranking purposes.
- Add structured metadata only when it reflects actual content.

## 4) Writing Templates

Use one of these templates depending on page type.

### Task or Guide Page

1. Purpose (what this page helps you complete)
2. Prerequisites
3. Quick start (minimal working flow)
4. Detailed steps and options
5. Failure cases and recovery
6. Related links

### Tool or API Reference Page

1. Overview and tool scope
2. Input schema
3. Field reference
4. Minimal request example
5. Response example
6. Known constraints

## 5) Prohibited Patterns

Do not merge docs containing any of the following:

- Keyword stuffing or unnatural repeated phrases
- Generic filler text without operational value
- Unverified claims about performance, compatibility, or policy
- Hidden or duplicated content intended only for crawlers
- AI-generated bulk text without maintainer review

## 6) Review Gate for PRs

Every docs PR must pass this gate before merge:

- [ ] A first-time reader can finish the target task in under 10 minutes.
- [ ] The page has valid frontmatter (`title`, `description`).
- [ ] Internal links resolve.
- [ ] Examples are runnable or clearly marked as schematic.
- [ ] Terminology is consistent with existing docs.
- [ ] Content is written for users first, with no keyword-stuffing patterns.

## 7) Required Validation Commands

Run from the repository root:

```bash
npm run docs:quality
npm --workspace ./apps/docs run build
```

## 8) Locale Policy

- If a page has both `en` and `ko`, keep semantic parity between versions.
- If only one locale is updated, add a follow-up issue for the paired locale.
- Keep examples and command names identical unless localization requires changes.

Commit message:

docs: enforce quality gates and improve SEO/GEO discoverability

apps/docs/content/docs/en/contributors/project/docs-writing-standard.mdx, after:

---
title: "Docs Writing Standard"
description: "Readability-first standards for docs that remain useful for people and discoverable in search."
summary: "Readability-first standards for docs that remain useful for people and discoverable in search."
---

# Docs Writing Standard

This standard defines how to write and review Ashfox docs so the content stays task-focused for humans while still being indexable by search engines and answer engines.

## 1) Primary Goal

The primary KPI for docs is task success, not raw page views.

- A reader should complete the intended task with this page alone.
- Search optimization must support comprehension, not replace it.
- If SEO tactics and clarity conflict, clarity wins.

## 2) Page Scope Rules

- Keep one page focused on one user intent.
- Use one stable canonical URL per topic.
- Split pages when content tries to answer multiple unrelated questions.
- Prefer clear nouns and verbs in headings over marketing wording.

## 3) Body vs. Search Signal Separation

Keep ranking signals in metadata and structure, not as repeated text in the body.

- Use query-aligned phrasing in `title`, `description`, and section headings.
- Keep body content procedural and example-driven.
- Avoid repeating keyword variants in paragraphs for ranking purposes.
- Add structured metadata only when it reflects actual content.

## 4) Writing Templates

Use one of these templates depending on page type.

### Task or Guide Page

1. Purpose (what this page helps you complete)
2. Prerequisites
3. Quick start (minimal working flow)
4. Detailed steps and options
5. Failure cases and recovery
6. Related links

### Tool or API Reference Page

1. Overview and tool scope
2. Input schema
3. Field reference
4. Minimal request example
5. Response example
6. Known constraints

## 5) Prohibited Patterns

Do not merge docs containing any of the following:

- Keyword stuffing or unnatural repeated phrases
- Generic filler text without operational value
- Unverified claims about performance, compatibility, or policy
- Hidden or duplicated content intended only for crawlers
- AI-generated bulk text without maintainer review

## 6) Review Gate for PRs

Every docs PR must pass this gate before merge:

- [ ] A first-time reader can finish the target task in under 10 minutes.
- [ ] The page has valid frontmatter (`title`, `description`).
- [ ] Internal links resolve.
- [ ] Examples are runnable or clearly marked as schematic.
- [ ] Terminology is consistent with existing docs.
- [ ] Content is written for users first, with no keyword-stuffing patterns.

## 7) Required Validation Commands

Run from the repository root:

```bash
npm run docs:quality
npm --workspace ./apps/docs run build
```

## 8) Locale Policy

- If a page has both `en` and `ko`, keep semantic parity between versions.
- If only one locale is updated, add a follow-up issue for the paired locale.
- Keep examples and command names identical unless localization requires changes.
